# My Library

## About
My Library is a Springboot backend application that allows users to browse books including their genres and associated authors as well as browsing both genres and authors separately. I started building this application after learning a bit more about `Java` including `syntax`, `object-oriented programming`, `classes`, `inheritance` and much more. In terms of the code, I'm using two `MySQL` databases, one for testing and one for development, the Springboot web framework and `Maven` as my build tool.

## How can run the app on my machine?
Assuming you have [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) and a `Java Development Kit (JDK)` installed on your machine you are set to go. If not make sure you install them. Once your're set, clone the repo by clicking on the Code button above and copying the link. Depending on your machine, open either the command line or powershell for Windows or the integrated terminal on macOS/linux and type `git clone <repo-url>` replace repo-url with the link you copied earlier and press `Enter`. Naviagte to the `src` folder there you find two folders, `main` and `test`. The `main` folder will contain a `java` folder that has all the main functionality of the application in the `Books`, `Genres` and `Authors` folders. The `resources` folder contains the database schema in the `schema.sql` file, the application properties and the `data` folder which contains the application data. The `test` folder is where the application tests are. It contains test cases for each action the app performs and makes sure that the source code is running as expected. The structure of the folder is the same as the `main` folder.

Now that you've explored these directories, you can open a terminal to run the tests using the executable `mvnw` by running `./mvnw test` or `./mvnw clean package`. Or if you wish to use the app execute the `export SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=dev` to run the app in the development environment and then run `./mvnw spring-boot:run`. Open a browser tab or use a tool like `Postman` and navigate to `http://localhost:8080/api/authors` or any endpoint written in the app's controllers in `src/main/java/com.ahmedM.mylibrary/[FOLDER]/[FOLDER]Controller.java`.
